Okay guys, so what we're going to cover in this first part of our series is control. Control is the most important part of guard. There's control in someone and then there's attacking someone. Without control, it's very dangerous to attack because when you have no control, you're vulnerable to attacks from your partner. It's so important to understand how to control someone. So, I wanted to find control quickly for you guys before moving on. I used a lot of terminology in GJ tip and I think it's very important that you understand these terms. Just to then be your understanding of guard will be complete. Okay, because I don't want to just give you a tax to do. I want to give you a full understanding of how to control your opponent. How to attack your opponent. Everything about the guards, I need you guys to understand. Okay, so let's define control. There's two parts of control that we're going to cover in this series. There's framing your opponent and then there's hooking your opponent. Framing your opponent is when you make a distance from your opponent where they can't come into you. If you have no frames on your opponent, they can pass your guard, right? They're not. You have no frames. I'm going to cover frames and hooking separate, but I just give you a quick. I put over view of what we're going to be covering because each of these concepts, I'm going to explain how they apply to a knee shield like we're working. Okay, so a frame is distance management. We're keeping the distance from our partners. Hooking somebody is that opposite. We're actually keeping them from being able to back away from us, okay? Both are essential in us playing guard because both are a part of our overall objective of control, right? And without control, it's very dangerous to attack our partner. So the first part of this whole series is going to be learning how to control the person. Because the first step of guard is control. The second step of guard is attacks. Once we have full control of our partner. I just wanted to give you guys a quick overview of this and now we're going to get into frames. But again, there's two parts of control, frame and hooking, and we're going to cover each element of that now. Okay guys, so now we're going to cover the first part of control. Like I discussed previously, the first part of control in guard is for art frames. What is a frame? A frame is your distance management. Your frame prevents your partner from putting all their weight onto you and smashing you, right? In guard frames are the most important thing. Wow, if I have no frames, my partner is enough, right? And I have no frames on my partner. Look, she gives not. There's no frames. So when I play guard, all I'm thinking about an issue is how I could place my body on my partner to keep a wall from stopping her from passing my guard. Okay, this is the most important thing because think about it. The more frames I've heard on my partner, her her to pass my guard, she has to win each individual frame. If I have, if I have one frame on her, she removes it, she has to make her. If I have two frames on her, now she has to remove one, just remove the second, and then she can pass my guard. So my objective, what I'm playing guard, is to make as many things on her body as possible. Because once I make all these things on her body, they will eliminate, you will make it so much harder for her to pass. Because she has to start individually eliminating each of my frames. And the concept we're going to learn in this series and all of our, because GG2 isn't just one specific thing. We're doing so many things from everywhere the same. Okay, there's so many general concepts. Okay, and what you're going to learn is how when they eliminate one of our frames, all other frames are what's going to help us redeem that frame. Okay, that's how we play guard always. I'm going to get over, I'm going to go over soon how we're going to frame and be healed. Okay, but right now I'm discussing our objective with frames. We're just placing our body on our partner to keep them from passing our guard. If we have no frames, they will pass their guard. Okay, so I want that to be your mindset when you're playing guard. I'm going to place as many parts of my body on my partner to make it way more difficult to pass the guard. Because when you're on top, all you want to do is remove everything from you to pass the closer distance. Okay, and now in the next video I'm going to cover are the most important parts of the body to frame. Okay, there's very specific spots that I'm focused on when I'm framing my partner. Okay, and also what I need you guys to understand is overall, the frames in place on our partner is our foot. That's the definition of four digits. The four is the overall accumulation of frames. For my foot to be strong, I need to have this strongness for this possible. Strong frames have nothing to do with your strength and your body. This strong frames have to do with your body position. All I do is study body position because the angle of your hips, how you're holding the collar, how you're angleing yourself is all what makes your frames strong. What happens is when you're playing guard, the second you have one week frame on your partner, your partner could expose it and take advantage of it and break your foot. Think of it as a fort and there's a week point in the fort, they finally point and they attack that part, collapsing your overall fort, even though other parts of it was strong. Okay, so my goal in guard is to completely eliminate any weak points in my fort, totally with my frames. So each individual frame I have to obsess about to make perfect. So I'm just giving up with all of you of our objectives. We're going to learn how to frame our opponent and I'm going to show you now the most important frames we're going to use in this series. And in guard general. So now we're going to cover our most important frames in guard for you to think of. Okay, this is so important to understand because these specific parts of the body are what's going to stop your partner from being able to perceive over. If I place my foot in the other parts of the body, if I focus on other parts of the body, I wouldn't be framing the correct one. So, but I want to show you is the most two important frames I'm going to be covering for you guys, there's a tip. There's one on the hip bone, the interior severe, the spine, this frame is so important. Okay, because every time she frames us, I cannot bring my body forward. If she was on my leg for example, let's say she's bring my leg, look how I can bring my hip forward. And look how he's our person. Whatever she's right on my hip bone, I can't come forward. If she were both in my hip bones up, I cannot come forward. You say, so we're always thinking about how we can frame this hip bone, what we're playing with. Because every time you go frame this hip bone, I cannot proceed forward. Meaning, look how I cannot bring my body forward. If she was on my leg, if she was on my ribs up, look how I can come forward. Look how I can come forward. Look how I can come forward, you say. So it's super important to understand that we're framing right on the hip bone. Okay, that the first frame you're going to learn in controlling the guard. The second frame we're going to learn, which accomplishes the same exacting, used to armpit. Okay, every time she frames my armpit naturally, every time she frames my armpit and pushes pressure here, I cannot proceed forward again. Oh, wait, I like to explain this to students, it's seen like X. So she's in signal like X on me. Here, right? If she's controlling the correct leg, her foot is right on the anterior superior X on the knee bone, right? When I remove the hip bone, look how I can pass the guard. Because there's nothing stopping my hip bone coming forward. But watch, if I remove the hip bone here, the grip from my hip, and she places her arm in my armpit like so. Now look at her arm. Look how I can not bring my hip forward again. I can go this way. But my hip does hip go forward. Why? Because the armpit. Okay. So if I can't proceed forward, I'm going to have super efficient frames on my partner. Okay. And this is the way that if you're smaller than your partner, that you could control them without them coming forward. Okay. When I find in Europeans about a year ago, I bought some important accounts. And I placed my feet in his armpits when I played guard. And that stopped him from being able to get over my legs. Because I made my legs perfect on his body. But if you couldn't come forward, so he stopped. Okay. That's so important to understand, guys, honor it and hit. Those are the two most important frames in guard that we're going to cover. And now I'm going to show you how we're going to do this in the shield. I'm going to give you guys each individual. I'm going to have a lesson for each individual of part of the shield. Just so you guys have all understanding how to control the partner. Because in the shield, your body leg, your partner's over one of your legs. So it's super important to learn how to frame. You need to be able to frame the shield to play it. It's the most important part of the shield. Okay. So we're going to get into that now. But again the tip on those are the two most important frames we're going to be covered with. Okay, guys. So now we're going to cover is what we're going to be doing in this series. We're playing knee shield. knee shield is a form of half guard. So there's open guard where my legs are outside my partner, right? And I'm not open. There's closed guard where again my legs are outside my partner. And then there's knee shield. Where one of my legs is inside my partner's legs. Okay, there's many guards where you have one of your legs inside your legs. knee shield is one of these guards. Okay. What is good about knee shield? What's bad about knee shield? The good thing about knee shield is I'm able to control my partner from getting away from it. I haven't covered helps yet. I haven't covered the other part of this yet. All we're talking about is frames. But because she's over one of my legs, I'm able to keep her from backing away from me. The cannabis is because I'm able to keep her from backing away from me, which I'm going to cover. She could put more pressure on her. She could use more pressure to comfort. So how I frame her is going to be the most important part of knee shield. It's way more crucial for me to be framing her correctly either. Then if I was an open guard. If I was an open guard, she's not already over one of my legs. She doesn't have a connection over my leg. She has to put one of my legs down and then get the half of it. And now she can start putting pressure on me to pass my guard. Right? So what I'm going to show you now is the first leg I used to frame my partner. This is the most important part of knee shield. If you get this down, you'll be able to clean knee shield perfect on everyone. Because no one will be able to crush you before. Okay? So what I'm going to do is, like I explained, there's two parts of the guard on the knee balcony. There's the armpit and there's the hip over here. And these are the two types of knee shield, right? There's a low knee shield like this and then there's the upper knee shield like this. Okay? In this series, I'm covering the upper knee shield. I personally prefer to always play upper. I want to show her upper body at all times. Okay? I don't like when my partner puts weight on her knee here. There's some mission exposure. There's many different things I can do in this scenario. But how I play in a perfect world. And I always want to play like this is hooking her shoulder, play on her shoulder like so. Okay? So like I said, the hip and the armpit are the two places we're going to be in the shield. Okay? For this first one, I'm going to show you how to play in the shield. So what? I'm going to be here. Again, we're not going to continue to my line yet. Okay? I'm going to be covering every single thing possible with this bottom, like also. And this arm, and every other part of my body. But right now, all we're covering is this left leg, how I'm going to be using it for this year. Okay? So what are we going to do? I'm going to do something. I'm going to show you how to set up a knee shield with my top leg. All I'm going to do is I'm going to take my left arm. So like I explained before, am I going to hit all of the armpits? Pretty much for it. I'm going to take my hand. I'm going to put my fist in the armpit like so. Look how my gut goes, or right in the armpit. So really show it for at least. You see how stops are from bringing the shoulder forward. Right? So now what am I going to do? I'm going to reinforce my frame on my partner punching away her shoulder. Put my leg as well in the same spot. So there's two ways that we're going to be legally able to place my foot or my leg. What is going to do with my shin on our armpits and comfort? The second will be my toes. And the toes will have a purpose later on in the series. Right? So for now, all we're going to be doing is to shin. And the shin is sufficient control. It's perfect control. Okay? So basically what I'm doing is every time I'm here, I just need to keep my partner shoulder back. If my partner shoulder comes forward, she could generate pressure on me. She could put more pressure to pass my gut. So all I want is to do is think about bringing this shoulder, punching her shoulder away. And now all I'm going to do is take my shin and put her shoulder. What I want you to see is how when I look this shoulder come forward, look how my shin stops her from coming forward. So I'm sorry my fist, so punch come forward. So I'm sorry my fist and look. When I'm framing her, notice how when I'm here, I'm also who my fist right on her collarbone. Why? Because a collarbone is directly afraid. Every time you're trying to grab a collar, anytime you're framing your partner, you're looking to go on a bone. The concept of bone for soft tissues, I talk about it every one of my DVDs, and basically when your soft tissue, she can bury my shin because there's nothing framing her. When you're on the bone, she can not bury my shin. Because she's directly a ball on her. Okay. So always we're aiming for them, the bone on her arm, right? So like push your shoulder on top, right? Knuckle is on her shoulder. Right on the collarbone, right? And not on her neck. Now when you sit on a hook, your shoulder is up. When my shin, right on her body, I'm going to talk about my foot, a little bit later in the hooking part of the series, right now we're framing all I'm doing is placing my shin on her shoulder. And I'm raising my shin in a way that when you come forward and forward, she can not bring her shoulder forward. If I didn't raise my shin this way, look how my leg bears. So look at my knees below my leg. When the hoists are buried. But look how when I bring my knee up, knuckle forward. Look how she cannot come forward. So I'm my fist, and my shin, the stop of the knee forward, they show you come forward, they show you. You see how she cannot come forward, they show you the guys. So all the advanced things I'm going to show you, all these crazy things I'm going to show you. If you cannot do this, and you skip this second, you will have trouble with everything. Okay, I'm telling you, this is the most important part of the knee shell, at everything I'm showing you, is this hooking the shoulder relation with my knee up and framing the shoulder. Okay, if this shoulder is forward, look how my knee starts collapsing. Look how she starts putting pressure on me. Look how she gets her feet in things and passing my gun. But if I'm able to keep my fist on her shoulder, like so, I put nothing thing. Look how she cannot come into me. Okay. That's why I'm covering this how and this is the so important thing. Look it also be like this, which will learn in other sections why I do this. But basically the concept here is you're replacing your hand with your leg. We're using our hand works, and we're reinforcing it with our other hand. I mean with our other leg. You see, both things are helping me, keep her shoulder back. Okay. So this is the first lesson you're learning on framing. This is our first frame initial, our shin hooking the shoulder by so. Not hooking, just frame your shoulder. We're not hooking yet. Okay. We're not using our hook on the shoulder. All we're doing is putting our shin on shoulder. Okay. I'm not always hooking her shoulder. I'm moving. I'm typically with my shin like so. And hooking will be in another scenario, and I'm going to show you that briefly. Okay. So for now, we're here. All you need to do is, we're here helping her. And get to the knee show and push the shoulder by hook. Then we stop here. My fist on top of my knee. My knuckles pushing. And my hand right on top of my leg. Okay. This is all we're doing for now. Don't worry about your hooks. Don't worry about anything. All we're doing is framing. And again, the definition of framing. Keeping your partner from coming in. We're not keeping them from back in the way. Just keeping them from coming in. All right. Okay. Okay, guys. So now what I want you guys to do is, I want you guys to practice this trip. I'm not using my bottom leg at all. The partner top is just going to be trying to pressure this shoulder into it. And you're just going to frame with your fist on the collar. Because we've got the collar right. We're going to place our shin right on the shoulder. And they're going to try to be into it. All you're going to do is just frame that shoulder. And all that partner is doing is really natural. They're not doing anything else. This is just going to teach you to be correct. Because if they're driving all the way forward and you're able to keep them from coming forward, you're framing correctly. Okay. Like I explained before, this is so important. This particular way I'm grabbing for shoulder. I'm framing for shoulder. So I need you guys to get this down. Okay. So I'm here. I'm not going to tear my bottom leg. Just leave it in the air when floating here. It doesn't matter what you're doing. If I'm like don't worry about the person passing, all they're allowed to do is bring your shoulder forward. Here. Bring your shoulder forward. Yeah, you say. So I have to stop it from doing that. All I do is I keep my hand. I go my thumb inside with four fingers right on the collar. I'm punching it shoulder away. I put my shin right on top. Raising my lap with me. Okay. You're going to ask your partner to come into you. Okay. And what you're eventually going to be doing is letting go of this grip. And your leg is going to be doing it. But for now, we're just doing this. So come into it. Okay. At the end of the show again. So come into it. But how my shin is looking here? I'm punching her away. And now she can come into it. Right? So you're trying to drop her shoulder off. If I remove my leg and my fist. Look how she falls for you. So now. See. And on my side, on my right hand. Right? On my side. I'm just playing here. And look how this is protecting me. Look how my right hand is going to be free. Look how I left hand. And let you be free. It's going to be so many things. But if you cannot do this. These shows going to be very dangerous because they. You're not going to be able to keep the distance, right? So our first frame is always here. Right? On the right. Okay. Punching. Okay. Okay. Okay. This is the first you'll initial that. What you guys practice. You know what the show is a while, but I just need you guys to have this understanding. Your party. Try as far as they can. The dry that shoulder. You're just framing the shoulder. Okay. This is going to teach you the perfectly. Use your. Neatial on their shoulder. Okay. So that's working. So now we're going to discuss the second part control. Obviously I have not discussed anything with my legs. I'm only focusing right on her upper body. Which is the first part controlling someone. Right? So we discussed framing our partner. Now we're going to discuss something else. We're going to discuss what is a hook. A hook is whenever I stop my opponent from being able to back away. So all I can is so far was when they try to come into you, putting pressure into your body. You're able to frame them from coming into you. Now we're going to learn is how to keep them from burning away. Okay, because this is the second part of control. You have to frame and keep them from getting away. You have to control your partner's stuff. They can't back away and they can't come in. Right? So this is super important to understand. And how I like to explain a hook is with a grip actually. Why? Because look how similar a hook of grip is with control. So my partner comes into me like so. Here and she's trying to put it to me, but no I'm pushing her away with my fist. I'm framing her right so she can't throw into me. But the second she starts back in the way. Look, I want you guys to see something. See how my finger. If my finger is in this line and she backs away, she is able to move her body back. Why? Because I'm not going to be behind her to keep her in. So watch what happens when I go to the collar. And I mean my four fears behind this collar now that way. Look how I have volume behind her to keep her from backing away. Again, right? No volume. They keep her back away with pressure falls away. Look how she's able to back away. Do you see that? So every time we're poking someone, again, with the other body, let's say I'm pushing her away. Back away? Now off. Back up. Look how I back around her mouth. Now she can't back away. This is the definition of a book. A book keeps the partner from being able to back away. Okay? This is so important for us because what happens is when your partner tries to drive into it. They feel the frame. In their mind, if they're not trying to force through a frame, they're going to think, okay, instead of driving through the frame, I'm going back away and then come back in. To try to change it and go the frame. Changing angles is one of the biggest things in you, right? So while I'm here, and I push her away, so go the frame. And she backs right now. Now I'm going to try to frame this early and bring your shoulders back in. But that should feel like frame. Right? So I lost my next finger when she backs away. But now when she backs away, that way. Look how I want to do like work fingers behind the collar. She can no longer back away. Because I have volume behind the collar. I have volume behind her back back left. If I want that volume behind her back left, that is what a hook is guys. That is all a hook is intuitive. It's just having volume behind the thing that you're trying to back away. And it keeps them from being able to back left. Okay? The biggest thing I need to understand is why this is important for us to understand and bring you before understanding and cooking. If I want to teach her from back to the leg. But I am real crazy. I'm going to keep her from back your legs and back left with it. Back left? Not gonna take it. Look how I can't stop her. I'm going there now. If I just hook her. You see the difference. So I need to be able to frame her and come inside and back you away at the same time. At the monitor or bull. That is the definition of control. Framing and cooking at the same time for full control of her partner. Right? So that is what I need to be guys to understand right now. We're stopping her from backing away and we're stopping her from killing him. Creating this middle ground where she's stuck. Okay? This is why we got a full control of her partner. Okay? So now we're going to go on to the next part of the series. Which I want to show you now how I use my hook on her upper body. Then we're going to get into the lower body. But right now I want to just have. I want you guys to have perfect understanding how I'm using my upper body control on her. That's what we need. The biggest difference in the start. So now we're going to show you how we're going to use our top like any shield now to monitor our partner from backing away. Okay? So I'm going to hear. And let's see if there's learned how I use my hand to have button behind my partner. So they can't back away. Now you're going to learn how to use your foot to do the same thing. Okay? But first I want you to see something to come into me. I'm afraid of her. But they feel the frame. They want to back up now. Back up. Now come into me what you're shoulder down. You see? This is very important. I understand this. So when she comes into me it frames. I beat the collar. And my four fingers are going to drop around her collar. So I have to follow you behind the grip. Now to back away from the collar. Look how many would it super backing away from just my hand. Right? But again, I'm using my light here. Why would I use my light the most in patient work? So I'm going to take my toes now. And I'm going to wrap it behind your back. So it's super close. Look how when I got my toes behind her back. You hang her back back with it. She cannot back away. So I have like four fingers in her collar. Putting the body behind them. Look how many four fingers in her collar. Pretty body behind them. I'm just showing you a box. And you say. And my toes wrapping her arm. Now she can't back away. So now it's the back of that. So this is how we're hooking our partner with upper body. We're free. So come in to me. Now start the back away. My foot is there tomorrow from back away. And my knuckle here. Pulling her in. Look how she can't back to the shoulder. Look how she's stuck. Look how she comes forward. She's free. Look how she backs away. She's free. Now I would define this as control. Right? Because I have a book elements of distance management. And her backing away. So I have the hooking. And I have the framing at the same time. So this is what both control is. Okay. So now this is what we covered in this one. Now I'm going to quickly give you a draw. Just the boxes poking at shoulder. And then we're going to start getting into the body like. Okay. Like I said, we're breaking this down. Each part of the body is specific. Because I want you to have perfect body position for each part. If I quickly did this, skimming it without explaining this, you would not have perfect body position. Okay. So I want you guys to really practice these individual parts of me show. Okay. So before we drill framing our partner from them coming into us, right? Now we just learn the hooking. Let's keep them from backing away. So now we're going to combine the two together. We're going to drill them. Come in and tell us. And then back and go. Okay. So watch what you're doing. The jokes are going to be like this. Again. I won't care about how I'm using my bottom right now. Okay. I'm going to be explaining everything about the bottom. Right now we just focus on this shoulder, which is the most important part of our control in the initial initial. Okay. So all that's going to happen is you're going to come into me. I'm going to frame your shoulder. Again, if I have no four fingers behind the volume of her collar, if I don't have any hooking on her back, back with me, look how she could back her shoulder with me. Okay. So all I have to do now is, which is framing commitment, all I'm going to do is I'm framing. As I feel she's back in the way, I'm going to place my four fingers behind the collar. Like so. So now I'm going to be behind her collar. I'm going to place my toes on her back. Now back with. Look how she cannot back away. Now coming to me. Look how when she started coming into me, I'd frame again. Now that way. Now come to me. Now that way. Now come to me. So that's all this deal is going to be on here. She comes into me. Wow. Come into pressure pressure. It's hard again. Now that way as hard as you can. Look how she can. I'm able to have a full control over now. This drill will guarantee that you're playing the knee shield correctly with the control. Okay. So I need you guys to just drill this a little bit, practice it. The person coming in, the person back me up. Don't have any change angles. Don't have the move at all. Because right now, all we're doing is focusing on the upper body. This up. Every part of the body, I'm going to give you guys the perfect body. This is the perfect body position for it. So right now, we just learn how to have a whole complete control of this shoulder, right? Every time they back away, we put. For we get volume behind them so they cannot back away. Every time they come into us and frame our frames, hit or armpit. Like always. And right now we're armpit. Okay. So we're just going to continue from here. But I just wanted you guys to do this. You'll quickly make sure you understand how to frame her. [Music] So now we're ready to discuss hooks in each shoulder with our legs. Okay. So we have discussed already how to control the upper body, controlling the shoulder, right? Because the armpit is one of the most important frames for us on the bottom. And also hook it, right? So now we're going to learn is how we use our initial hook as a frame as well as a hook, right? And I also want to explain to you all the different length positions we're going to cover in this series. And how they're all basically the same, just altering the angle of our toes. Okay. So first thing I'm going to show you is the inside. So I already show you, right? We've done this shoulder here. I'm ready to help her body. And I have my hook on her shoulder like so. So now she comes in to me. She can't. She backs away. But now I'm going to show you my bottom like it's going to go inside. But all I need you guys to understand about when I go inside this game size, that's what you can see. All I want you guys to see what I'm doing is I put my heel in the middle of the lower and upper part of her leg. So I want to show you guys what is it under her. And the other hook is whatever my hand is in the lower and upper part of her leg. She has two parts of her leg, right? Why it under is so effective is because it controlled both parts of her leg. So when I'm here at least you know all I'm doing first is putting my heel in the middle of her lower and upper part of her leg. Okay. So now I want to explain to you this. The difference between each shoulder and the personality but because of my partners on her knees, where we're doing is notice my heel remains the same. I'm going at least my toes on the lower part of her leg. Like I just explained this to you parts of her leg. Whatever my partner is on your knees, I'm controlling the lower part of her leg. Whatever my partner goes on with me, look what I did. My heel remains identical, right? But now I'm no longer hooking the bottom part of her leg. I'm going at least my foot on the top part of her leg in reverse valley above, right? So go down here. Look at my heel remains the same on pole. So in knees you're on hooking the lower part of her leg, which we're covering this series. When she brings her leg up, look now I put my foot on the upper part of her leg. Because her leg is off the floor. The lower part of her leg, the upper part of her leg is off the floor. You see, when the lower part of her leg is on the floor, we hook the knee show with my foot. When she takes it off, we're in reverse valley. So this is the first thing I want you to understand. Now I also want you to understand. The other part of the series, we're actually going to be doing this. Not only will I be initial, I'll have a butterfly leg like so. And I'll have a reverse butterfly hook like so. Again, following the same concept, look. The heel remains identical in pole, right? Because this, the reverse butterfly hook, I'm hooking the lower part of her leg. The butterfly hook, I'm hooking the upper part of her leg. Look now my heel remains in the same place for pole. So I'm here in each show, which we're going to be doing this whole series. I've never been shown on her. I've got a leg collar, I bring my foot in. I'm just focused right now. I'm putting my heel in between the low and upper part of her leg. Like this. Now I realize, okay, she's on her knees. What does that mean? That means I'm grabbing the lower part of her leg on my toes. You see how I'm grabbing the lower part of her leg on my toes? Now what this is going to make me do today. Because I'm grabbing her leg. So if I wasn't grabbing her leg out of here, just run her feet around and walk around me. Look how she's able to walk her legs. How do you do the fine control before? We define control by stopping her from coming into me and backing away. If I'm only here, she could start backing away. Really, it's back as well. You see? Because she's able to back away. Watch when I put something behind her. I put my toes behind her. Now that way. I do something in here. I'm backing away. Come into me. Now I'm making this wall under children. So as you guys can see, I have a bulk control of her leg. And when I grab my toes around the lower part of her leg, it stops from being able to run away from me or continue as well. So I wanted to give you guys a understanding of why we're hooking the knees. The knees should come on the lower part of her leg. She's honored. That's why we're doing this. If her knee comes up, we're a reverse belly man. Okay. Also, we're going to be covering this series by accident. The butterfly hook will be involved in the knee shield system. And the reverse butterfly hook. And what do they have identically in comment with the reverse? Not like the hook and the knee shield. My heel remains the same in bulk. Just controlling the lower and upper parts of the leg are different. That's the only thing guys. So I wanted you guys just to get an understanding of both of these things. Do you see how I'm backing my leg around her? All I'm doing is I'm here. I'm getting her shoulder. I just put my toes in. Right here, she's honored. I just brought my toes right over the leg like so. Okay. This is all we're doing for now. Okay. I just wanted to give you an understanding of the hooks. It's so important. Yes. So now I'm going to give you a quick drill to practice hooking our partner. I wanted to see how completely controlling our partner now. And now we already have two parts of our body controlling the partner. Technically three. But my left head is going to be leaning at shoulders soon. So right now we're going to be having two parts of our body completely dominating her. Right. As I explained previously, this whole series I'm going to show you how to have perfect control with every part of our body or two legs and our two arms. Right. So watch how I'm going to control. The Jo is going to be a solos. I'm here. I'm going to just like the previous job where I'm putting your shoulder. So come in to me. I'm punching her shoulder. I put, notice I'm on my right head. Right. I'm not square. I'm on my right head. I'm punching her shoulder right now. Come in to me. And now I'm putting my foot, my leg. You hurt her shoulder as well. So she's trying to come in to me. She can't. She tries to back away. I make body with my core fingers behind the collar. I hook her back. And I'm back. She can't back away. So now I'm going to add this to this. This bottom leg is going to go inside her leg. And now it's going to happen. It's going to go in between the lower and upper part of her leg. But I want you to just focus on your heel. Get it inside. Not your toes. So you're going to go like this. I'm going up and shoulder her legs up. I'm going to go inside my leg. You'll meet you in the lower legs. Now all I'm going to do is place my heel right here. And between her legs. Like so. Now that my heel is inside the lower and upper part of her leg. I'm going to just place my toes to the lower part of the leg. Okay. Now you can go on one knee. Please. So you sound like heels already in the spot. Now it would just go on top of the leg like so. You say you sound like down. Lower her leg. You see how it doesn't change either direction. Okay. For this, you know, obviously we're initial. So her knee is down. I'm just cooking. But all I want you to bring to think about when you initially get to the knee. She'll put in the heel right in between the lower and upper part of the leg. It is identical to under. Right. Because what is under her family. And under her family is my hand in between the lower and upper part of her leg. So now I'm just using my leg to under her leg. Right. Now once I'm here, I put my toes right behind her lower part of her leg. I'm framing up with me. Now that's what? Now I'm cooking her leg. Okay. This is all I want you guys to work now. This now already. We already established two parts of full control on my partner. Which already is going to give you an amazing success in knee shield. Right. But now once we start adding in the other elements, you're going to see how much better you're taxiing in get. Because remember what we said. To attack her partner, we need full control. Guard your two things. Control it and attack you. To attack knee control. Once we have full control, our attacks become easy. You're easier. Right. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. So this is the next row. Just putting her leg in. Okay. So this is the next row. So this is the next row. So this is the next row. free mark on her shoulder, we're ready to begin learning where what I'm going to do next. What I'm going to discuss next is how I play on the cross cup. Okay. Like I explained our goal is to establish as many frames as I can on my partner. What I also explained is whenever I'm on a bone, I have way better frame than being on soft tissue. Okay. Now when I'm going to explain is how when I'm able to have full control on one part of my partner's body, using two things, I can let go of one of those things once I pull control and use that thing now in another place. Okay. In other DVDs, I say I'm now free for actually our activities with this thing. So how I describe it in my other DVDs, I describe it as you're using, you replace your whatever you're using and then what you replace it with another part of your body, it opens you up to use that in another part of your body. Because our goal is to do is full body efficiency, right? I want to be able to use my body as efficient as possible to the highest percent. Okay. So what I just showed you guys before. I mean this position, now I'm looking here for, right? Because we just learned this, my this and hand, my leg and knuckles are framing her so she can't come in and she can't back away because I'm looking. I feel I have enough control of her shoulder, I'm able to let go of my hand now. Why? Because come into me, back away. Now back where you're like, you see. So I'm now able to control her because of this bottom hook because of this I do things hooking her and I do things framing her at once. So now this hand is free. This hand is free for our activities, okay? So in this series what we're going to learn about this hand. Mostly in the series we're going to learn the color. We will be grabbing the cross lead at frames, but for now all we're going to be doing is grabbing the color. So if we're following my rules before, how to frame my partner, where is my hand going to be? It's going to be directly on the color bone on the bone, right? So not completely. Look, I'm taking away another thing, come to me, now come to me, okay? So now I'm directly on the color bone, but I was on the soft tissue of come to me, look how my wrist starts collapsing because there's no frame on her, now come to me. So now let me ask you, can you feel like there's a wall on you right now because of this frame, like from you coming in and then this thing, so three most other. Yes, there's nothing she cannot come in, right? So now, as you see, we are already established somewhat control of my partner, right? And also what I want you to see is right now the function of the cross color is just primarily on the frame, right? What we're going to learn to do with the cross color, like I explained other series, is spine and affiliation. Using my doubles on her neck, we're going to be learning to bring her neck down, possible submission exposure, right? There's many different things, framing her away, so come to me, okay? Pushing her this way, that is what's amazing on the color. Let me Mr. Rector had an interaction, and every time we put the Mr. Rector's spine in the direction of her body, it alters her face between each leg, which are going to be discussing balance in a little bit. Right now, I'm here, framing her shoulder, we're just going to add in. What's like, "Well control, and we're this grip, and I grab the cross color, great on her color, it's amazing." You see, I'm poking her bottom like, and I'm just in this spot. Whenever you're honking the bottom like, in your frame, you're not thinking about looking, all you're thinking about is your heel being in between the lower upper part of the leg. Then your heel will go every time, okay? So, okay, please. Permission me? I'm poking, I'm framing. Once I feel my frame is sufficient, I push her back enough, I twist and I can grab down the frame again. Okay. Now, let me do it. And now, my frame is all that's left, right? So now we're going to be learning what to do with the right here. But as you see, this is pretty much what we should. This right hand is going to be in many different places when I think you should. Okay, so there's not going to be one set rule for this. But for my guard, in general, this is my guard. I already have these many things left. One, two, my hook is another thing. Three. If I need to do my knee, which I'm only going to explain a little bit, I need to be on the outside of her body, will be your frame as well. But you see, guys, for her and past my guard now, it's going to be very difficult because she's going to have to remove my frames to pass my guard, but she's going to have a really hard time because I've so much control of her from backing away and coming in. So for her to remove my frames, it's going to be really difficult, guys. Okay. So now you're going to understand. Color group, we've got a right on the collarbone. Okay. That's what we're thinking about for now. Okay. We're hugging a leg, pretty darned. It's just like before. We're just replacing our knuckles that we're here to the cost collar. Now we need to go. So now we just discussed our hugging the leg getting the collar. Now we're ready to discuss how we're going to play knee show. Okay. So there's two worlds of knee show. Why do I keep everything in the world? If you're not familiar with my diabetes, every thing I teach, I always convince the two worlds. But because every time I do things into two worlds, it's either or independent on the scenario, I'll attack according to them. So in my mind, I make everything into two worlds. Once I know I'm in a certain world, I know all the steps and procedures I have to follow in that world. But then when they defend and give me the other world, I have my steps and procedures also to follow. So I always try to make this split between both worlds. Okay. And when you're going to notice this is when I'm playing knee show, there's two worlds always. But I'm here in knee show. And I'm initially starting here with my hip. My hip on the shoulder and the collar. There's what the first world is my head is more towards her shoulder. Right? And this arm is more forward. And this arm is more back. The second world is when I'm over here in knee show. My head is not facing her shoulder. And now I'll notice how this shoulder is more back. Both worlds will give me different opportunities to do things, right? Just so you understand, there's going to be many attacks on both worlds. Okay. And we're going to learn that every time we're doing one world, the partner might defend giving us the other. So it's going to be very important for me to understand which, what to do in the scenario, right? Because my start going through this shoulder, she might back, it's like, "I'm going to show the fat. Now look around. I'm in this world now." Okay? Or, "I'm here." In this world, she brings back shoulder to me. Now in this world. Okay? So what is this going to come down to? This is all going to come down to a million hip interactions. In the first world, the series we're covering the far side, the far side. Okay? This is the same side, and this is the far side. In this part of the series we're covering all far side stuff. Okay? So this two world, far side, same side we're covering far side, and first. So my objective to this series is always going to be getting my head to her shoulder, that far shoulder. Once I get my head to that shoulder, we're going to see how many opportunities present themselves. Okay? But also what I want you to know this, since we already learned about the hooking, notice where my knee is right now. When I'm in the same side of the knee, she'll, right? Look how my knee is outside her body, it's a frame. Notice when I go to that far side of the knee, she'll look how my knee starts moving inside her leg. And notice also how my toes that are in the knee show start are not as deep, so go to this one. So when I'm first in the knee, the same side, right? Here, look how my toes are deep and my knee is not in. When I start walking, look how my toe gets deeper in, and now my knee is inside. Now it's like I'm playing a butterfly hook on this leg at the same time as playing with the knee show hook. You say, so when I'm on the far side, my knee starts going in like a butterfly hook. You say, and that's going to be a new way of me controlling her, whatever I get to this far side. Okay? And when I'm here, my knee is shallow, so my foot is still in really tight. As I walk, if you'll get deeper and my knee starts going in, as if I had a butterfly hook. You see, I'm her butt right here. But now I have two hooks. One on the inside of this leg, and the other on this leg, which is going to help us tremendously in later parts of this series. Okay? So right now we're working the far side series in the show, right? And I just wanted to make you understand how when I angle myself, my knee starts going inside her legs. That's going to be tremendous for us in later parts of this series. And again, keep in mind when we're playing this, we're also going to have attacks eventually on that same time. Okay? So I want you to just have this understanding about to explain to you what pros I'm going to have, also being on this side with how I'm able to grab the collar and use my knee as well with the collar. Okay? So I just want to give you overview where in the world one of our knee show series, which is going to be the far side. Okay? Okay, guys. Now that we know that two worlds of knee show, what I want to quickly explain to you is how I angle around my partner. Like I just explained to you, I'm a knee start going inside when I start getting to that far side of knee show. It's important that you understand how I'm moving my body. Okay? So I'm here in knee show and I'm in this spot initially here, right? In my knees outside of your body, just like you learn. And when my knees outside of my body, my hook is strong, right? So I'm here. And I'm just controlling this leg for now. As you guys will see, as my head is facing the shoulder, my body knee going inside her, this leg gives me two controls of her, like, half. Because now this leg is going in as a bar of my hook. You see, what funny knee is here, it's talking her leg. The same leg as if I had a bar of my hook. It gave me the same functions. Because the bar of my hook, the pros of it are I could raise her leg, right? I can lift up her leg off the floor, right? Well, I have to do a hug from this far side. Come on, you need to raise her up. Exactly the same as a bar of my hook, right? So that's what you're really going to notice is going to happen as many knee goes under her leg. Okay. So now what I want you guys to see is how I'm angleing around her. This is a great drill gesture practice, but it's really simple. How are you going to see angleing around the person? I just want you to place your elbow on the floor. Okay. Once my elbow is on the floor and holding the collar, you're just going to move my body where my elbow is. Okay. So I place my elbow on the floor, holding the collar, I'm just going to move my body where my elbow is. Hold my elbow like so, and now I'm just going to punch my body. So I'm here. I pull my elbow forward, I'm just going to bring my body up, hold my elbow, close, bring my body right over my elbow. Now my hand is straight. Now my hand's on another shoulder. I'm going to go straight to see my feet movement. So here, I'm training. I just sit on my elbow, then I get to punch my body. So all you have to do is put your elbow forward and now you're bringing it in. I'm going to put my body where my elbow is. Right? So I'm here. I just put my body where my elbow is. And I end up right here. Okay. Now there's all the ways I can move my body as well. Using my toes on the floor to walk, you see I can scrub my shoulder. I can tuck my shoulder in instead of coming up, using my head. But for now, all I'm going to do is to work is elbow and floor move your body. Placing it right where your elbow is. And now I'm into this spot. Okay. That's all I want to explain this section. I just want to quickly Make sure you have an understanding of pain on yourself. Because it's like you just start, there's two or three shoulder. And if I can aim myself around her, I'm in the same side of your shoulder. Right now we're working far side of your shoulder. So it's very important to understand. You have to aim yourself to face this shoulder and then we're in the far side of your shoulder. So now what I'm going to discuss, I just discussed how we're using that collar as a frame. Now we're going to do exactly what we did on the other side, but we're going to do it on this side. Now I'm going to use my knee to reinforce my straight in my collar. So before we learn about it, when I'm here, I'm going to show there as my first straight in, right? And my hook, right? I bring my leg in and now she can't come forward or back. So then we move my hands to the cross collar, but now I'm going to bring this shoulder to me. I have to bring my hand, but why not? So bring this shoulder to me. Now look what I'm going to do. I'm just going to take my knee that below my shoulder. I'm going to bring it up like so. Now everything. Now I have my knee and my hand both supporting the frame on this shoulder at the same time. You see, so look out with more efficient. I'm using my body right now using my knee and my hand on this side. Completely the guarantee that you cannot be this shoulder forward, right? And then she started to bring the other shoulder forward to shoulders. Look how my hand is already there as well. So I'm always using my knee, whenever my partner brings this shoulder forward, to go right under my hand to frame this shoulder as well, okay? So we already learned hooking the leg like so, right? So we learned hooking the shoulder like so, framing here, switching the hair. Now what we're learning is how to frame with the collar here, and then they use our knee as well, whenever she comes in with this shoulder, so bring this shoulder forward. Now, all I'm doing is I take my knee, I sit right on top of, I sit right under, right? I sit my hand right on top of my knee, right? And that's all we're doing, it's a pillow bearer. I always define pillow bearer. All my DVDs as it's literally just sitting on top and it's an extra support. Now I have two parts of my body, framing one spot. Obviously generating more strength, and it's way more efficient using my body. So I'm here. I'm wearing the collar with my knee right under my hand, nothing to do. Notice my chin is like a bar, right, a concert chest as well. Reading, I'm going to be seeing the feeling stronger as well because she can't break any part of our upper body. And today, seven, two, you say, so we're first here. We're a bookie, we're here, I think you might need to not come in there. Now, both shoulders, being either shoulder forward, please. Both shoulders are completely stuck. And I have my hook under them. Okay, so I want you guys to add this in now. So we already, so practice hooking the leg, practice framing the shoulder, practice family collar. Now we're going to add in that knee across the body, put your chin across the body.