What's up guys, we're here again with BJJ and little stunning here. Sorry, my hair, my beard are all messed up again this time. I get a chance to cut it before I came. So, sorry, you're going to have to deal with this. As of right now, I've been working on the system for like the last year and a half. And let's talk about what the system is and what, what, why develop it first of all, okay? It's going to be a combination of other Toriado system, like so, with a camping subsystem where I camp and I hang out on my part as J point, which will talk about it a little while. And a combination of a high step series from both reverse and an outside deliva, like so, to get past my corner's hip and past my corner shoulder line. Okay, so that's just a basic general idea. Let's look at why I developed the system in the first place. Back, like 2015, 2014, 2015, all I really did was leg locks and scrambled to the back. But my game was built around attacking the legs and it was very little guard passing in there. It got to a point where everyone in Henzos was so good at leg locks that they came almost impossible to smidden me with leg locks. So now it's okay, well this is no good. I'm scoring fewer and fewer submissions per round. How can I up my, my submission percentage? So I started passing people's guards. So if I can pass the guards, I can pin them and I can take their back and then I can finish them. So I started using body lock passing, okay, and that was successful. I worked for six, eight months and it was great. I would lock my hands out and ask people to body locks. Then everyone started to get kind of hip to that and they realized, okay, the corner knots is handy. So whatever I started doing, the story keeping hands inside, knees inside, and big body locks incredibly hard to get to. Or they just flat out started playing a simpon game where now there's no lower back exposure and I couldn't actually go in and lock body locks in my partner. I said, okay, what the hell I do now? So I started playing game where I forced people into half-guard where however, maybe they ended up in half-guard. And then I'll get some kind of control of the upper body where I passed the leg and I go and I control the head. So I switched my hands and I go and I control the head and I would use that and start passing their guards. And then they got to a point where they started doing a really good job of keeping inside position and half-guard. I couldn't come forward anymore and I couldn't get to upper body inside position. So then I was like, well, what the hell do I do now? I can't pass the body lock and I can't pass a linear into half-guard. So then when I started doing, I started using a torreado game. I would tour around though, the outside of my partner's legs and I started out plugging them and passing. And then it became increasingly harder and harder to get outside of my partner's legs and pass the hip line. So then I started developing a camping game where I'd tour on the one way and then I started going across my partner's legs and having the risk of re-engagement. I would start camping on my partner's hip line like so. So I could spend more and more time pass the hip and pass the shoulder line. And then it came to a point where my trainer partner got so good, where I would go for the initial torreado. My partners started opening up their legs and making it impossible for me to even outflank them. So then this leads me into my high-step series where if I can't outflank my partner who likes to reach in towards me, you go in, so we start playing a high-step game. Parkinson's are going in and passing my partner's legs. This is initially why developed this passing system that you haven't really seen this too much in competition. You saw a little bit in my Roberto match, in my full on my fill, bro match, but you haven't really seen it because number one, I've just been working on it recently and developing it. And my stomach was less too bad so I stopped competing for a while, so you haven't really seen it. Another reason why you really haven't seen it is because the more basic your opponents are, the more basic your moves have to be. And most of my opponents are terrible, so I've never got to this level of sophistication when I, when I'm working that passing guys in competition. Because I go out and they just allow me to bodylock them right away or force them into half guard right away and immediately pass their guards. Um, I've never, I've never gotten to a point where I couldn't tour down the way guy couldn't lock my hands in a half guard or bodylock and had to start high-step thing, I would just go out and easily pass their guards. So the level of sophistication with guard plays not at a level where it would merit me to use such an advanced passing series. Um, in addition, I'm in a heavyweight bracket, most of the time we're almost a play bottom position. So I want to spend most of the time in a match and places that would lead to submission. Instead of going out and fighting a guy for three, five, six, seven minutes on take downs and then having three minutes to work. I rather just go out, sit to guard and spend the ten, full ten minutes trying to submit the guys that are wrestling first and then trying to go down to the floor later with the less amount of time to work. So I just go out and I sit to guard and I do either leg locks or backtakes and I do most of my work from bottom position. You don't only see me passing too much. You can see why you haven't seen me use this. It's because of the fact that if you look at my matches, everyone knows I'm a very good guard passer. So what they try to do is everyone just wants to knock it submitted, right? Everyone tries to do is instead of playing guard, usually there's an unspoken role where one guy is the passer and one is the guard player. They'll break this unspoken role and they'll just try to stand up and see this very clearly in both of my Wagner matches. You can see it in the Tim Sprykes match where guys just try to freak out and stand up and get away from me. So you're now your primary goal is to avoid submissions and pass your partner's guard. It's to hold your partner down and you can actually attempt to do a guard pass. So when your partner tries to get up and get away from you and stand up in a way, it's an arc in keeping your partner down and you change your guard passing based around this. So the focus now is it's changed from passing the guy's guard to holding the guy down. You have to change your passing style a little bit and we'll talk about this in the future in a different different series. More of a scrim and dressing series but we'll talk about it eventually in the future. So you haven't really seen this kind of passing because my partners are so terrible or my partners are so terrible that I can just easily lock my hands and pass the guards and they're trying to get up in a way for me. I usually overextending trying to push away and that allows me to get some form of connection with the upper body, whether it be with a body lock or with a top head and arm, things like that double under hooks. Because they're overextending so much trying to stand up that I can actually lock my hands and work more basic passes that you know most of us have seen. So we're going to experiment now with more advanced passing systems and I have someone who's very, very good at keeping upper body inside position and now not allowing me to get. Either connection at the waist or connection on the upper body, making it very hard for me to start flanking my partner. You know, you always deal with those guys there. You feel like you go to engage the guard and they're like dumb be and they're so flexible and you feel like just nothing you can do to get past our guard. Those are the guys we're looking to pass now guys, but incredibly good guard retention. It's very hard with guys who are very hard to make a connection at the upper body or at the hips with body locks. Alright, so let's look at this new philosophy I have when we're talking about guard passing. Now this is going to eat a loose passing series. It's not going to be body lock or half guard passing, it's just going to be based around a loose series of flanking and high step. If you look at the number one thing that your partner needs to effectively play a guard against you, what is it? It's a connection of their legs to your body, okay? If your partner can't form a connection to your body with their legs, they have no guard. Any guard requires some form of connection to your body with their legs. If they can't do that, they can't play a guard. So I got into a habit mentally of whatever my partner forms a meaningful connection to my body with her legs. It throws up red flags in my head and I'm thinking what is the fastest way I can disengage my partner's legs and flag them. So every time I forth my partner forms some kind of connection whether she grabs an ankle, like so, and she wraps up with Alfred Delihiva, any time I partner forms any meaningful connection, I'm like, okay, this siren's going off my head. How can I disconnect and fly? I partner doesn't do an ashigurami. No good, this connection to my life. How can I disconnect and flag? So I just play this game just by thinking to yourself, never let your partner form a connection to your body with their legs. If you have the means to do this through skills and knowledge, it's going to be incredibly hard and incredibly exhausting for your partner to do anything. There's nothing more tiring than your partner constantly pulling needs to chest. Trying to engage your legs to you, the legs are just flopping around and your constantly side to side and their legs can't form a connection to you. There's nothing worse. I probably trying to engage me, the whole time the legs just can't form a connection. This is exhausting for your partner. So I don't spend time in front of my partner where legs are engaging me. I spend time in flagging positions where it's incredibly hard for my partner to get anywhere close to me. And this is the philosophy we're talking about. It's disallowing your partner to form a convenient connection with their legs to your body. We're looking to spend more time. Pass our opponent's hip and pass our opponent's shoulder line. Then time spent engaging my partner's legs. The ideal, this is obviously very hard to accomplish. The ideal in a match. It's to spend more time camping. We'll talk about camping as I can. Camping passion partners, hip line and camping passion partners shoulder line. Then your partner, then time spent engage inside your partner's guard. Okay, so if I can spend more time in this position in a match, then I can spend in this position or in this position or in this position or in this position. In a match, you're going to win this match. You're going to pass your partner's guard. So that's the ideal. That's where striving towards. So if we can't achieve that, we have a vision of what we're trying to do. Okay, now let's talk about J point or J spot camping. First of all, what is the J point? There's a critical demarcation line on your partner's body. Where if you walk past that point, your partner is in jeopardy of having that guard past. Okay. This line is the one that draws the hips together. The hip line. Anytime, I can get past the hip line from this point forwards. My partner's in real jeopardy of having her guard past and she has to give me a real reaction otherwise it's going to be passed. Right now, this elicits no reaction. If I step, she might partner's hip line. This elicits almost no reaction. If I step past my partner's hip line, this elicits a huge reaction. We're now, I'm perpendicular to my partner. She can no longer engage me in the legs and so she puts herself back in front of me. And now from here, she can go and start to engage actively into a guard. So, what I'm looking to do is to constantly find ways to flank my partner and move past my partner's J point, which is the hip line, like so. And even better, past my partner's shoulder line, like so. If I can do that, it is going to be very hard and very exhausting for your partner to maintain guard. Now, so we're going to look at an idea called camping, where I physically just can't. I park myself on my partner's J point. We're going to look at more and more of this in a few minutes. Where I physically can't, in positions like so. So, my partner who has been tangling me with the legs, she's using a ton of energy. I'm using none. Okay. So, I can, how my partner's J point for 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 seconds at a time. Until my partner just so exhausted, she just needs to drift away from the chest. You pass your partner's guard. Now, it's so exhausted. It's pretty easy to work through a submission. Okay. So, between the ideas of flanking your partner and not allowing them to connect the legs and meaningful ways to your body. And constantly working to camp on your partner's J point or beyond the hip or beyond the shoulder line are super super, super important. There's a couple of athletes who actually do this very well. The kings of this are the men's brothers. They work really, really well. Walking past the hip one, the footwork is beautiful. They do it a lot in the knee. Moving past the hip one, moving past the shoulder one. They put a drastic amount of pressure on side to side. I'm on, on their partner. But they do it with a movement base game. There's two ways you can camp at your partner's hip line. You can do it with a movement base game where you walk from side to side. Or you work around your partner's head and you walk it to north south and side to side control. Or you can do it with a negation of movement game where I physically camp and I don't move. Once I get past my partner's hip line, I don't move. Okay, so playing with these two ideas of constantly walking past your partner's hip line and shoulder line and camping past that point. Staying past that point is going to be an idea if you play with that and you can constantly walk past the hip one. It's going to be incredibly hard for your partner to maintain guard. And at that any point, your partner engages the legs in a meaningful way. So it's going to pressure on you or off balance here. These throughout red flags and your head and you say, "Man, this is not good. What's the fastest and most effective way?" I can disengage my legs and immediately outflank my partner to move beyond the straight point past the hip or past the shoulder line. If you work with these two ideas, it's a very simple idea. And everyone knows this. Okay, she knows that you're trying to outflank her and if you do, it's going to be difficult for her to maintain guard. So this is the game you're playing. She knows that she doesn't want to get outflank and you know that you want to outflank her. But if you can just keep these two simple ideas in your head throughout this entire series, everything's going to become much, much easier. They're very simple, not easy to accomplish, but they're simple ideas to work with and now we need the skills and knowledge to be able to implement these ideas. So let's talk about a cranial shift. I mentioned this before. What is a cranial shift? We talked about cranial shifts actually in the first passing instructional, systematically attacking the guard. But we didn't have a name for it back then. Let's talk about one of the goals being pinning your partner's upper body controlling the head and the shoulders. Either before you pass the legs or after you pass the legs. And this is what a cranial shift is at some point. You have to go from passing your partner's legs to controlling the head and shoulders. Okay, and you treat and pass your partner's guard technically without controlling the head and shoulders. But you can't really pass our guard in a meaningful way where you can isolate limbs and attack them unless you make a cranial shifts. And so what that means is by the body's up, for example. And you see this in the homelo match 2017. I pass, you can pass your opponent's guard with control of your partner's weight. So your pass your partner's legs technically yes, your pass your partner's guard, your partner's guard, your perpendicular. She doesn't have the legs engaged anymore, you score your points and you pass your partner's guard. But doesn't mean anything until you make a cranial shift where I go from passing the legs to shifting to the head. So I make this cranial shift where I come up and I go from the passing the legs to controlling the head and shoulders. And if I can't do this, like in my homelo match and I come out and I try to switch and he brings hands and side and now you can regard, I can't attack it. I can't attack her upper body and isolate limbs in any meaningful way unless I control the head and the shoulders. So we're going to talk about making this cranial shift while we're passing where we go from passing her partner's legs. You can control the head and shoulders. It's easy to pass your partner's legs. How many times do you see matches in live training or competition, guys passing the legs? Happens all the time. Who I stand up, I tore it on though, I passed the legs. I'm passed my partner's legs right now. But passing the legs, getting past the legs, and actually passing the guard are two different days. If I can't control the head and the shoulders, I can't pass my partner's guard. I have to make a cranial shift. So passing the legs and actually performing a cranial shift in passing your partner's guard are two very different things. And we have to understand that when we're passing. So that's what a cranial shift is. Now, let's look at distinguishing between certain types of passes. We can pass into a side control, we can pass into mount, and we can pass into north south. Now, this becomes very interesting. When I pass into side control, when I pass into mount, I have to perform a cranial shift. Why is this? When I, in order to pass, there's no way I can effectively pass my partner's guard into side control or to mount. And then, use it to attack them. Okay, so with distinguishing between just passing their guard to score points and passing their guard to actually attack her attack and submit your guard. There's a two different things. If I want to attack and submit my partner, I have to make a cranial shift when I pass the side control or to mount. And there's no other way around this. Okay, if I want to attack the upper body. But when you pass to north south of your passenger partner's shoulder line, this is the exception. This is why passing to north south is much easier if you look at competition. It's much easier for a high level guys to pass to north south against an incredibly good guard player who is good at keeping upper body inside position. Because when you pass to north south, you don't need to make a cranial shift. Passing to north south is the only pass when you don't have to actually control your partner's head and your shoulders to actually get pass your partner's guard and attack them in a meaningful way. When I pass into north south, I don't have to control the head. If he has a knees up, all I have to do is beat those knees, beat the elbows, coming with my hips. And now I've successfully passed my partner's guard. And now I'm passed the legs, I'm passed the guard without controlling the head in any way. I have to enjoy my partner's arms. And now I can start doing it and attack my partner's arms without having any direct control over my partner's head. So cranial shift has super, super important when you're looking to pass into side control or into mouth, which is a large part of what we're going to be doing today. But if you're looking to pass, if your pass your partner's shoulder line, then you're passing into north south. And you don't need to have a cranial shift, the north south pass is the one exception to the cranial shift. So if you're passing when you're passing the hip line on the J point down here, and you're passing into mouth and side control, you need to have a cranial shift to where you go from passing the legs to controlling the head in shoulders. If you're passing to north south, you don't need a cranial shift, and you can pass successfully pass your partner's legs past the guard. And isolate limbs without direct control in the head. [Music] Alright, I'm going to present the very hard to small pill for some of you out there. And you're not going to like what I'm going to, I'm about to say, but it's a fact and there's no way around this. If you guys want to become a true guard passing master, if you want to reach your true potential as a guard passer, you have to become a master, or at least incredibly competent at leg locking, and why is this? If you play a game where you're trying to pass someone's guard, and you know that if they enter into any kind of Aussie or army, they're going to leg lock you. They're going to sit down to the butt or sit down to your butt, and then go into attacking your legs, and you're going to freak out to get out of the way. Or if they get into some kind of Aussie or army, you're so afraid that you rip out of the Aussie or army, and you run away and you reset. You're never going to reach your full guard passing potential. You're always going to play a timid game where your feet and legs are back in a way from your partner. When you play a relatively low passing game, and every time someone cuts your legs, you swallow legs back in a way, you run out in a way you disengage, and then you go back into your partner's guard. This takes away a very large portion of your passing material. You have to carry on those that are hard to do. Someone inverses into your legs, and you freak out. The highest thing is out of the equation. There's a lot of passing that you won't be able to do if you're afraid of getting your legs into it. And even if you do this passing, and someone enters into an Aussie or army, for example, and even if you can rip out in a way, let's say, okay, I don't. I'm afraid, if my partner says me down for me, she's going to leg lock me, I'm afraid of leg locks. I feel like she's much better than I am. Even if at any point, you can be like, okay, I can just bail, and I can kick my leg out and run away. That's counterproductive to the passing guard. You're moving away from your partner. It's much better to be able to stay in the pocket. And passage, and that you can go into actual passage from here. And knowing that worst case scenario, your partner sits you down, tries to go into attacks in your legs, and you just repomble and you break your partner's leg. So you have to be able to have the confidence that if you try to do these passes, and not just these passes, other passes as well, and your partner enters into your legs, and tries to play leg lock, a leg lock and game with you. You can either, for the bare minimum, stay in the pocket, disengage your legs, and put real passing pressure on your partner, or worst case scenario, your partner sits you down to the butt, tries to leg lock you, and you just repomble, get back on top, or repomble, and then go into attacks in your own partner's legs, and counter leg lock your partner. You're never ever going to reach your full guard passing potential unless you're highly competent or an expert at leg locking, and there's just no other way around this. To pass with a passing, a standing manner when you're going as a strong, strong leg locker. If I try to do these high stuff passing, I'm sorry, playing a game from here, and then, for example, I lose my partner's partner's far-light, and she goes to start inverting, or out my leg leg, so if you, if you're, you know, freak out for me, like, oh, no, my legs ain't get broken. This is not what we want. You should be able to stay calm and know that you're going to be able to pass your partner's guard from here, even when she goes to even when things go south, and she gets into your leg. Well, worst case scenario, you can repomble the legs and get out. You can counter leg lock your partner, and so on and so forth. So understand that, if you're looking to master, especially this high stepping system, where I use a Toriando game, and I use a game where I'm high stepping out of my partner's guard, and my legs are presented to my partner. If you want to master this style of passing specifically, and all guard passing, you have to become a highly competent, if not an expert in the area of leg locker. And I'm sorry to tell you that to some of you because I know you're not going to like it, but it's true, and there's no other way around this, and the fast you accept this, the faster you can progress in terms of guard passing. Alright, so let's look at a quick little overview of what we're going to be looking at in this in this passive series, and the how the breakdown's going to go. The first thing we're going to look at, everything is going to be passing an opponent from a simpon guard. Alright, we're going to be working on, I'm going to be standing, and my opponent's going to be simpon. If my opponent is seated, we use all of the stuff we're using in the previous system athletes attacking the guard, the first version. I'm always principal storming the same. This, this is just an addition to that, so I'm not saying just to use these and then don't use anything that I showed to those all the same concepts still apply. I think I haven't watched it, I'm assuming you have. You haven't watched, I recommend watching that one first, so you get the general idea of passing, and this is a more advanced and more advanced series. But all the same, all the same ideas apply, still fainting with the lead legs still going in body locking and hand by and all that, but this one is built around, Torgon those and highest that passing, so we're going to be doing everything against a simpon opponent like so. The first thing we're going to look at is fainting, and we're going to go into depth in all these sub-experts, we're just going to run through the overview right now. The first thing we're going to look at is fainting with Torgon does, where I use various things, yes, my partner. Off-bounds and I get tensed through my partner's legs, okay. Won't be at the same thing, and then we're going to go into basic Torgon does, which we've already talked about. But we're going to start to review them and then go into how I can use Torgon does to move into situations or get start camping on my partner's J point. So when you use fainks to start to get tension on my partner's legs, they're going to use Torgon does to outflank my partner, and then we're going to use camping scenarios where I outflank my partner. And I move to this J point camping that we're talking about, and we'll expand upon it in a little while, okay. Then once we start once we get through the camping series, then we're going to go into the high step series, both from. First, Elohim position like so, and an outside Elohim position like so, and then we'll work on passing both side control and to north south from all these series, and then once we finish. Once we get through all of them, then we'll look at the unification of all of these series and how they tie together into one coherent system, okay. So we'll go fainting first, get tension on my partner's legs, the Torgon does to outflank my partner, camping to stay flanked, then we'll go into high stepping, and then we'll look at the unification of all of these passing both. So I control Mount north south and then we'll move around from there. So let's look at something really interesting when you look at guard passing. If you take the two best guard passers of all time, the two best hinners of all time, gui and no gui, it's me and hydrograisey. And if you don't want to, if you say that Gordon sucks and I don't like him, I'm watching at BBDs, but I hate him. That's fine. If you don't have to think, you can leave me out of the equation. If you just look at hydrogra. All of hydrogra is passing, he was good at all different kinds of passing, but the primary focus of all hydrogra's passing was to force a half guard chest to chest. If he got you pinned in a chest to chest half guard and made an upper body connection with a cranial shift, he was going to pass you, he was going to mount you and he was going to finish you or take your back and finish you, okay. The overwhelming majority of my passing is to just force my partner into half guard, right? When I body lock someone, it's unlikely against a high level player. They're going to just pass right away into a side control. But if you force half guard and you make a cranial shift, you can flatten someone out from half guard and get past that top arm and get past that top leg, it's going to be incredibly easy to pass someone. If you have a direction of moving first to half guard and then passing them from half guard. Not just any half guard, specifically a chest to chest half guard where you have some kind of upper body connection, your pastor partner's cross shoulder post and your pastor partner's top leg. So a lot of this instructional, just as the entire body lock instruction was built around passing someone or forcing half guard to pass. So this entire instructional is going to be focused around either passing someone and if I can't pass them, forcing half guard. We've talked about backtracking before we talked about it a lot and the body locking instructional. And I haven't filmed half guard instructional right now, I'm doing a matter of order, but I'm probably going to talk about it in that one too. But I'm a big advocate of moving back into my partner's legs. I provided it on my own terms right backtrack into my partner's legs in order to go to in order to get a more advantageous position that I originally wanted. And a perfect example of this using this system is in my Roberto Jimenez match where I was touring on the one side, I tore it on the back the other side. I started camping on the J point and then he was moving moving scrambling and I presented my leg to allow him to catch half guard and I flattened them out and passed them from half guard. So forcing half guard and going back into your partner's legs and backtracking into your partner's legs provided on your own terms is one of the most effective ways we can get a strong pins and then passes after that. So we're going to use this entire series if we can't get past right to side control right to mount or right to north south. Fourcing half guard chest to chest is almost just as good, so it's going to be a big focus of what we're going to be looking at today. All right, so let's look at engaging a simpon guard in the correct fashion. Now what I'm going to show you is not going to be like a look revolutionary or a revolutionary or anything, but it's going to make a huge difference when you're actually trying to pass the toy on those. When I go to engage my partner in a simpon guard, I'm going to come in behind my hands, but I don't want to do is just walk in toward my partner and then she just entangles my legs and make forms of connection right away and now I'm getting off balance. So I want to come behind my hands with a staggered stance, but I don't want to hide my hands with a square stance and now if she backs my hands forward clear them anyway she has to act with both my legs. I can move behind the staggered stance so even if she backs my hands forward, she only has access to one of my legs and not to. Now in addition, when I come behind my hands, I'm going to put my hands right about mid right below midship. I'm going to do this with my hands to easily, I don't control her legs at all, and if I go towards the ankles, she can pop up the legs out and it's hard to control my partner's legs for any amount of time. So I go about midship, dry below midship, so she goes to pop up the legs, it's harsh made a hole to hold them and I can hold them for a little bit longer than I was just. And if I was down all the way on the ankles, okay? Now, when I go to engage my partner, even if my, even if my feet are staggered, notice here my center lines are still aligned, okay? What I want to do is I want to miss a line my center line and my partner center line, so you have two choices here. If I want to step in between my partner's legs and split my partner's legs or a crashed center and start to go into various times of passing, where I start using where I start using. Just lose passing here, where I'm pumbling on top and things like that, and we look at it and passing in the first passing instructional, that's fine. But if you want to flank your partner, and I'm always going to look to do, as I'm going to look to put two feet on the same side of my partner's body. So instead of stepping into this position, and now trying to start my turn on the work from here, where my foot aligns with her center line. Like so, I have to start tore down this from here. The second I step in, I kick a small step to the outside, so that my lead foot is on the outside of her hip on the side that I'm trying to pass to. So when I go to step in, this is very subtle, but it makes a huge difference when you're passing. When I go to engage my partner, instead of stepping into this position, and doing my work from here, I step in like so. So now, my two feet are outside my partner's hip, and instead of having my foot in the center line, my foot is outside my partner's hip one, like so. What this does is it makes it incredibly hard for your partner to put legs on you, to attach to her legs to you. If I go in here, my partner, I can only hold my partner's legs for so long. I don't have the luxury of having grip to my partner's knee pants like I would if there was a jacket. For now, when she gets to reach towards me, I can start pushing the legs, and I can hold her legs for a long amount of time. I can only like control my partner's legs for so long, so she clears my grips which she eventually will, and I get this before I make a step, she's engaging my legs. Whereas here, when I outflank my partner, and I move to a side, even if she clears my hands, it's still really hard for her, she has to change an angle first before she can really engage my leg again, okay? So this gives you the extra time that you need to start a tutorial on those secrets. So when I engage in some fine guard, I come behind my hands, I go relatively mid-shin, as I walk in, assuming I'm looking to flank my partner, I walk in like so. I catch, I take a step out, and I shuffle, one, two, one, two. I get to an angle, okay? This is so much more effective than starting everything from here, just a small angle change. I'm going to make a huge difference for us, and we'll see why in a second, okay? So we can behind the hands, and we move to a flight with a lead leg outside our partner's hips, two feet on the same side of the body, rather than one foot aligned at the center line. All right, I know we went over this, and the past, but it's super boring because everything we're doing today is based around Toriando, so assuming you didn't watch the first instructional or you need or vision on it, we'll go over Toriando footwork, okay? When you're looking to hit Toriando without the geek, understand that you don't have the luxury of robust grips on your partner's legs through the pants, so you can kind of cheat with your footwork when you're working in a geek, because you have control of your partner's legs for long amounts of time. When you have grips in your partner's legs, without the geek, they're just grips that are used for touching go methods. While I just touch, I throw, and then the hands usually come off as my partner highlights, and I have to re-grepp and throw it to the other side. So what actually gets you pass your partner's guard is the precision of footwork when you move side to side. So your footwork is actually doing to work, not your hands. The hands are just a supplement to throw the legs and the opposite direction to get your partner's feet and knees pointing away from you, which is one of our goals from the original passing instructional. So as your partner's feet come towards you, you throw them further than they wanted to go, and then you step across the other side. So the precision of footwork is what gets you pass your partner's hip one. When I'm looking to pass my partner, okay, we're just going to do this with no hands, first of all, just so I can have the footwork and then we're going to add the hands and later. But I'm looking to step with the toy on those. I'm looking to step, pass my partner's hip line every time. I have to step past that jeopardy point where my partner's in jeopardy having a guard pass. Otherwise there's no pressure. If I toy on them and I go here, there's no pressure, I toy on them and I go, it is no pressure. But if I just take a small step and I go past my partner's hip one, now when she goes, now when she goes to react, it's a big reaction and she has the high leg over, she has a face meat, she can move her whole body in order to not get her guard pass. So our basic tour down the footwork is going to be from a situation originally initially outflank our partner. Now we're going to take a small step outside with our left foot. And depending on where you start your tour down the front, this will be a bigger or smaller step. If I start with my foot, splitting my partner's center line, this definitely will be a little bit bigger. If I start with my feet out of this position, it'll just be a very small step to the outside. Okay, and then I'm going to take a cross step past my partner's hip one. Again, depending on where you start, this will be a bigger or smaller step. If I start here, it'll be a big step past. But if I run to an angle, I take a small step and then the cross step is basically just straight to my partner's hip. So instead of stepping across like so, I just step straight up here. And now from here, I make a pivoting motion so that my knee points toward my partner's forehead. And I step to my partner's J point to hip lines. And from here, my knee points toward my partner's forehead chest, your partner, a big partner will always bring a leg up, throw a leg over and enter into your legs, and now you're getting beaten this position. Now you're going to pass 50/50, your partner has cross-harmic and thanks to the fall part. So I always step like so, and now I pivot. So that my knee instead of pointing towards my partner's forehead shoulder, point towards my partner's forehead. Because of my leg position now, this will just inherently make it harder for my partner to enter into my legs again. And I'll make it harder for her to enter into my legs. I'm possible, but harder. The main reason why I do this is so that I have readily accessible V-drips to my partner's legs. So when she goes to leg lock, may you bring her legs up into an Aussie growing, I can actually access my partner's legs. Whereas here, I know access to my partner's legs until they're actually in tangling. So just when I go to the step to the side, we come in, I start from this position. If I start right in front of my partner, we take a big outside step. If I start flanking my partner, we take a small outside step, and then we just step right to our partner's hip. Like so. Now we take a pivot where we take this foot comes around, it was above my partner's shoulder line. And now we'll well pass our corners J point, we have access to the legs, and now my partner will have to bring an easy and order to knock in our guard pass. Okay, stepping to one side. So we can step to one side, very easily. Like so, if we're going to the other side. So the same thing, or if I start an originally with a flank, small step, straight step, and then we pivot. Now you saw it to get used to this and you start going side to side. So I go in, I originally initially step and we're here. Now as my partner's knees are coming in to regard, I'm going to take a very small step back out past my partner's hip one. Here, I don't go here, so far away, or now I can't reach the other side. I don't go so close, or my legs hit together, I stumble on my own legs. I take a small step right out past my partner's hip one, like so, so that my foot points across my partner's hips and the same direction or hips are pointing. And now from here, I just lean my weight on to one foot, and as your knees come this way, I take across that across my partner's body. And I pivot. She goes to bring her knees in, take a small step, and I pivot. Knees in. Every time, you can get well beyond your partner's hip one, with this stepping pattern. Right, going to come in, initially, we're here, she brings the knees in, as she's bringing the knees in, I'm going. So once we get the footwork pattern down, now we bring the hands into the equation. Hands come in, and I don't always ask me, "What group are you trying to make in your partner's legs?" And here at the moment, it doesn't matter what group you make. Your hands are for touching go method. There's a variety of groups that you can make, and you're not going to let set your grips as you want them every single time. It'll be here, sometimes it'll be here, sometimes it'll be here, sometimes it'll be here. It'll be here, but maybe a group you can use. The only thing you're looking for is some kind of connection to your partner's legs, so you can touch and go. So the second you go to bring your legs in, I just grab the legs, I touch, as she goes to bring the leg towards me, I throw them, and then I go. She goes to bring the legs in, I throw them, and I go. I throw them, and I go. I throw them, and I go. When every time I'm past it, it's a jade ball, and she has to give me a real reaction, otherwise using jeopardy, of getting a guard past it. This stepping pattern, and by the throwing of the legs, you can stay consistently, pass your partners, pass your partners hit one, on either side, going back and forth, and putting incredible amounts of passing pressure, side to side, as your partner goes to re-guard. And the whole time, there's no meaningful connection of her legs to yours. So now we're going to look at an idea of creating tension in my partner's legs. Now what is the advantage of this? A little thought experiment. If I ask you, or if you ask me to pick up a sunny, to carry your 20 feet from this side of the room, which one would be easier. One where she's standing up, and her entire body is flexed, or one where she's on the floor, dead weight, and I have to pick her up and carry her across the room. Obviously, it's much easier to move her when there's tension going through the body, because you can easily move the whole body around you know exactly. If I put this much energy, the body's going to move this far, as opposed to just picking up a dead body and everything's all flopping around. This is, this is true with guard passing. People all have those guys who are super flexible at their legs, and you try to move them, and they're just flopping around. They're like gumbi, and you try to move their legs around, and they're so relaxed that it's hard to get any real reaction to that of them. And it's hard to move around, it's hard to spin their body, it's hard to move them around. Same thing with arm bars, if I'm looking to go into arm bars, as a defensive player, I want my armers relaxed as possible, so my partner has a hard time moving it around. If someone's trying to extend my arm in an arm bar, and I'm flexed the whole time, and I'm trying as hard as I can, to not move my arm, it's easy for my partner to know who the arm is moving around. If you pull it, you pull it, you pull it, you know exactly where it's going to go, but if it's relaxed, I can move it back and forth relatively easily as much harder for someone to control it. That's the same thing with the legs when your guard passes. If I can create tension in my partner's legs, it's going to be much easier to move my partner around, and to either outflank them or stuff the legs or move the legs where I want to. So just playing with this idea will make things much easier. If I go to move my partner's legs and they're relaxed, it's hard for me to pull around my partner. But if I go to move my partner's legs and she's tense, now I can move my partner exactly where I want to. I know exactly how far my partner's legs are going to move, whereas when they're relaxed, it's a hard thing, I move my partner and I don't get any real reaction with the rest of her body, her legs move independently of the rest of her body. But when it's tension, now when I move the legs, the whole body moves. So our goal, as passers, is to create tension within my partner's legs. So that when I move the legs, I get a real reaction to the rest of the body. The question is, how can we create that tension? And the answer is, think it. All right, let's look at some things, just basic things in front of my partner to get the great tension through the legs. Now you can faint in front of your partner when you're still engaged inside some form of guard. When you haven't passed the J point yet, you can faint beyond the J point when you're passed the hip line and you can also faint in north south when you pass the shoulder line. So there's fainting in multiple stages of through paths. We don't have to just faint in front of someone. There's many times you have to create tension in the legs. Move, got to move people around much easier. Okay, but just basic fainting in front of a person. There are three major kinds of faints that we can be looking at. One is a throwing faint where I just throw my partner's legs side to side and throw one side to the other side and I just use that to create tension. The other is shuffling faints where I shuffle side to side and the third is switching faints where I switch my feet. And we can use these all in combination. I have to use one of the other. We use all in combination depending on my partner's reactions. So let's take a look at these. A throwing thing is what I step in my inside my into my partner's legs and I can be either a front of my partner like so or we can walk to an angle. And now from here we can throw our partner's legs from side to side where we can faint in one direction like so. Now she creates tension and I throw the other way. So I can step in and I just go in. I just move my partner's legs around. I just give small fast twitch movements. And move my head offline. My head center. My head moves offline and one direction and the legs go in the opposite. If I'm at an angle already, just bring legs towards me. My head moves as my legs as my hands go on the other direction. That big movement is just. This cool create tension in your partner's legs. Another way of fainting is shuffling where I physically just shuffle from side to side. This can bind with a throwing. Will allow you to faint and start creating tension in your partner's legs. And I can go, you know, have to faint and shuffle the same distance every time. I can give a small shuffle and then a big shuffle. And then we go. So eventually, I'm shuffling, shuffling, shuffling, shuffling and now I step past my partner's legs. We're past the legs. The third is a switching faint, okay, where I switch my legs as I faint. This once, a little bit tricky and can easily confuse a talented opponent. When I step with my right leg forward, she knows subconsciously. And I'm looking to pass her right soft. Why is this? If I step, my right leg forward. And I take a step to her left hip here. I expose my center line and she can dominate this space between my knees and throw a lot of noshy drummers. So if I go in and I step in this direction, I widen the space between my knees and I expose this space here. So now she clears the hands. She enters into my legs. This is no good, okay. So when I come in, she knows that if I try to pass her left and I'm right leg lead, this is a mistake on my part. And now she has all kinds of entrances into offense. So subconsciously, good player will know if I come in, high my hands. And I have a right leg lead, I'm passing to her right side because now when I cross that, I minimize the space between my two knees. Now she has to enter into my legs. She can't use any straight-hushy drumming entrances. And I can sort out like in my partner, okay. So if I'm rightly forward, she knows I'm passing right. To use a switching thing, where if I want to pass to my partner's right, I step in left lead forward, like so. And now from here, I make a faint like I'm going to throw my partner's legs to her right and pass to her left. So I go to step with my left left and I go to faint and I throw like so. My partner gives me a reaction and creates tension in the legs and a feet go to face me or her knees go to face me like so. The second I see that, I just quickly switch my feet. And as I switch, I pass in the up to direction. Now she has to face me. We switch our feet, we use a switching thing to switch from one side to the other. So I create the illusion of passing left, I step in, left foot. Now as I go to throw, I go to step. She thinks I'm passing left. But I passed right. So she thinks I'm passing left. But I passed right. She thinks I'm passing left. But I passed right. So I step in like so, I go to throw. And now I just have to my partner's hip line. She knows I'm going to pass left. As she goes to face me. She adjusts for this. And now. I pass the opposite side. So switching faint combined with these strong things. So I go to step to one side and plant here. I'm playing lessly far. I come in. I come out throwing. I'm shuffling. And then I switch. So we can create tension with these three things. A partner goes to react. And she's like, man, it's just as terrible. She doesn't know where I'm going. And then we're passed at J point. We create tension. At least I'm getting past. My partner said one on either side. So basic things in front of our partner. We have throwing things. And we combine them with shuffling things and switching things.