All right, guys, we're going to cover some secondary options for merversal use. Everything you've done so far has been very heavy for follow-ups, from the inversions, but there's going to be always times where the diverges back at work and there's quite a few good secondary options that we can use off of that's the right number of merversal use. So, going back to day and day of deep deep type position, for me the way I think about, um, traversal hiva is, I want the weight of the far leg and really that's why I'm trying to achieve a lot of things. And doing it again, we went over a scoop, I can use the scoop, but ultimately I do prefer getting the weight of the far leg. But when this front leg is very heavy, that's what I think about using the false three. So, false three, it's a pretty common position right now. But when this leg is heavy, I think about going false three. So, I'm still going to kind of have my reversal that he will look in. And I want my arm hugging my leg. It's saying when we talk about the forward where my elbow is close to my hip, I don't want him to get that knee in the back. Now, what I'm going to do is, with my top hand and hand, even if it's hands on the hip, it doesn't matter. For free, I'm going to replace my leg over. So, what I'm doing is, I don't put the butterfly hip in. To start, this is what a lot of people do. I find I don't have the space that throw my arm in after I do that. I do not want to grab first and then work my left arm. So, left leg is on. So, my grab first, I'm just inviting him to get chest of chest. So, to smash me right here, and now I have no flexibility to get my leg inside. So, the order we do the false three is put over the top first, arm goes in, and then the hip comes in. So, this is kind of what I've got, like the protocol of giving myself and it's a pretty successful. So, I come underneath, I frame similar to what we go for the last of the version, and I'm just going to throw the foot. So, I can step on this far claw. I want to create a lot of space between the back of my knee and his claw, like this. The reason being is, I need my arm to go in here, right? I need it up space to my arm, go all the way inside. So, once I get this, I'm going to use both legs, so my reverse leg even hook it, and by foot to make a little bit of space. And see how my right leg occupies the space between his hamstring and his calf, I'm just going to replace that with my arm. So, I kind of have that hook in, I extend, I drop, narrow close like this. Now, I'll go deeper by left arm. Once I get that, I'm going to be locked, I'm going to figure four and grab my ankle and just use that to pound my legs inside. And again, I do find if I come back. So, I pull this in, if I pull this in first and I make space now, I have less space. I don't think I can jam that, trying to get this arm in here versus throwing the leg over, making space now, but big gap to go elbow deep. I grab my ankle, grab my forearm, so even if it goes to clear my hook out, it goes to his hands, it's stuck because I have the script and I just pumble the toes inside. Now, once I have this, I'm ready to start to invert. So, I'm going to put my toes on the mat. Again, I check out the versatility, he will go out. I'm going to give Zing a little kick over my right shoulder, and my toes will go on the ground. And my hips have to come up like this. See my butt, I'm down, I'm underneath him. Now, whatever the clip is like, I'm vegan. So, I'm making this script under his shin, with my right hand. That's going to help me create a distance to that between his hook and my hips. Overly this one, this one I need to do right here, so I'm nice and tight, I make that space. So, I make that space, I get this nice and deep right here. Now, chose on the mat. Now, look, as I'm here, I'm vegan being like, extend that I bring my knee behind, and now I've gotten my knee into this position. From here, we have two options. If I feel like he's being heavy on me, my toes stay in the mat, and I roll my head to the outside, like this. And I bring his foot towards my chest, this is a force of the role. Right here, I'm creating that like torque on his leg. And now, I have this arm underneath, I get to the top and the top. And as the first option, I'll show that again. When the falls reach, I'll always place it tight. Fraying it down inside, it's the amount I always inside my knee, so it's able to punch it under up. I'm in good position right here when I do this task before. I'm focused over, I make space and drop the hook, or place it my arm. Figure four, chose, rolled inside, that toes in the mat, I got to get off of my shoulder. I can't just pull this through. So, here, vegan. And now, let's see my head all the way through. And it's really fun when I do this, I pull a foot towards which there we go. So, I create this band in this leg, so it's like, foot is rotating externally to his knee. If I did this for a second, if I did this, if I did this, if I did this, if I did this and just stay here, he won't do this knee into me. I would just end that past smash. So, it's really fun when I bring the foot with me as I do that. So, I make that space, replace, drop, and chose, vegan. Now, I bring my head to the outside, we're going to bring the foot this way. That's going to make a turn, and now, I get to my saddle. So, sometimes, a little happiness. I'll feel my partner. So, make my space, I'll feel my partner really sink in their knees and widen the space that way. I feel like I feel like dropping right knee, dropping right knee. I feel like I can't get underneath from the same way. When this happens, so my right hand is going to come out with a grip, but it kills your back post. And I lift my head up like this. Now, I'm going to create that same torque by bringing this foot outside the line of his knee. I go my left shoulder, and then switch it around my legs. I'm doing side, now I'm on saddle. Same ways before. So, just again with that. Make that space. Throw that over. Boom. I grab. But I feel like I can't take them over like this. But take this out. I kill these grip. I come up. Now, cross my ankles. And I roll the opposite shoulder. And that's going to rotate his foot outside the line of his knee. And now, I'm going to suck. All right. So, from our reversal, heva. He's heavy with the front leg. Can't get his right back leg. Can't go from there. That's going to throw the leg over. Putting the foot on the hip first. Making space for the arm. And then coming with the foot inside. And we're going to fall straight. Back to fall straight. We talked about the front leg heavy. We're doing the fall straight. The common reaction of this guy on a few different ways. His knee is heavy with that front leg. I make space. I start the coming into the small recuperate here. He kind of goes away. He's kind of where everyone's doing. So a lot of times, the person will do it. He'll drop to that outside leg. No search of rotate his knee. Almost outwards in this direction. The more his knee comes to the back. The more pressure he's doing when I do this. The easier it is for me to get underneath him. Are you going to sit back and hold his knee up. One of my looks starts to come out when it's hard to get up. And a lot of times, you may even sneak by foot out. Now when it's kind of crappy because it should work. You don't even have the way. So when it's hard, we go back to the other version. So when you think about way forward, fall straight. Way back. Reverse on the heave up. He has to sit straight back. This happens. I just have to switch. Reverse on the heave up and again. A good inversion. Right here. So I'm making space. We'll let it come over. I'm starting to pull this through. He's just to sit back. It starts to clear this foot out. When this happens, the hook goes back in. I mean, just like that. And then we'll back it all the options. We'll force it out here. So this is a really nice transition. So he's having a year. I can't hit my reverse of the heave up. Makes space. Start to go forward. I'm trying to get his leg in. But he manages to pop the look out. Takes it out. Hook goes back in. And we hit on the bridge. So with this particular version, we do have to use the overreacting version. It's very hard to get the scoop. Like in time to invert. So it is important for this to do good at that. But look how leg comes over. I start to switch. He's also popped in like that. So he's back right away. I hope goes in. I lift the foot off the mat. Now I do my knee to chest lotion. I get tight version. And now we're back in our reverse of the heave. So playing between the two differences of the weight is forward. His weight is heavy. It's heavy. I'm going to fall straight because that knee or leg is heavy. Easier to get my fall straight going. The weight is back with the rest of the heave. So when he switches his weight from one to the other, we go back and forth. So even something like. If I. If he was on the knee, I'm starting to hit my reverse of the heave. The same stuff to pressure me to make. This is a great time to grow the leg over. You go fall straight. Lift the toes up. And then we have to be outside. Now we're in. Our fall straight situation. So the. It works in both directions going reverse of the heave or fall straight. And fall straight. So even you can get. All right. So. Another transition after we can do. I feel like you don't want to use the reverse of the heave. Because we can go to. I call it a new side. So we look at. From the reverse of the heave position. You can stand in. I get my scoop. So we use the scoop. And it over at will be both. But if he stand, we're talking about in third. Right. But there are some danger to associate with that. So as opposed, it's just been. I can invert my knee inside like this. Very similar to a cave. I see this like. But I. But I had. I got. Tell that he for scoops. Right. Tell that he for scoops. I inverted my knee inside. This would be our cave art position. It's the same idea. I'm just trying to be on the. Other side of the leg. Because it's on the reverse. Tell the he decided not to go to the side. So I get my scoop. And I work this knee inside. Just like this. So this is great because. He goes to pressure. And to me right now. Especially because he had chest adjust. It's going to run for. Right. It really uses to make a lot of space. And it's not super easy for him to disengage from. And just having this in the side. And it's important to me a lot of 50 50 transition. And other options versus just inverting. In this position as much less prone to back takes. So I did like a version here. You got to take things. It's a. So first. So take my back. Versus when I do this way. Because I have that. Sheen in front of this. You go through the same thing. You just really can't do that. I have the spring. Right here. So I'm kind of using this side of my foot. At the right here. I'm pulling. I'm going to try to keep my. You might check. I'm not standing away. But to look. It's more of like a. The chest. So the first off. And then you go to stop. This is left for for free. Because I do have the under. But this. Inside. And through my knee behind. Like a lot. My legs. And then saddle. The problem with standing saddle. Special with it. And it's kind of easy for him to. So clear my knees. He says to push my knees down. Now I'm not super tired. I couldn't have been trouble. But what I will do here is I will immediately. The invertean side. They're just using to take it down. Now you're saddle. Potentially. Put this side. So that is an option. Throwing a leg. So right the saddle. When I do that. It's really important. That. I use this. Both. The point third side. Don't just throw my legs like this. We're going to stuff me on our shoulders. I use this up the point. My right knee. Close behind his knees. I'm kind of supporting this calf. I'll talk in my quad. And I lock and I spin my head inside. And I hit my. Inversion to take it down. But my preferred option here is to go to back side 50. So it's very similar. I hit the same. When you're side dead. But instead this leg would come out and around. And throw it back. So I'm just getting the second foot on his stomach. And I hope this right here. And put this leg. Now it's very important. I'm not just inverting. With the soup. Because now we need to switch. We're going to go back. Because I have a scoop. I don't have the heel. I'm kind of stepping hard. So as soon as that leg comes inside. I'm going to make a transition. To an overrack. So I invert the knee. I put the foot on the stomach. I go hand behind his hamstring. And leg comes here. Because I don't want to go back. I'm going to step with that left leg. If I just kind of didn't do it. He would back step. And square up with me. Now I'm going to stand in 50 50 with the scoop. I go to the back. And I overrack. Just potential. Kind of this show. This is there. Versus. Here. Put on the stomach. It goes behind. I sewed this inside. I immediately come back out to my overrack. And because I have this in the underneath. I just forced him. Back side 50 50. We would be with the overrack, which is going to result in me catching the heel. So using the scoop. To our near side cake guard. Like this. Put on the stomach. And you have the knee. Come around and take the overrack out. And I force him to this back side 50. But I can do this. Like I said, we're going to overrack. It's going to be slightly harder. It's like the overrack. So even version of the little bit harder to get. But instead of getting the scoop, I have the overrack. And the stance. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take this inside. Like I'm going to do the same thing. Like I'm going to do it. Like I said, whatever it is, is I'm going to use my foot behind this hamstring. And I'm going to turn my leg away. And I get the ball on my foot. I'm the back of the hamstring. And that's going to help me pull myself through. Almost like an inversion. But I'm doing this. Right here. So see how my toes are gripping the back of his hamstring. And my chin is still on the outside. And now we do the same thing. We're going to throw a back side 50, 50. Again, with the overrack and heel. And it goes behind the hamstring. So you see a lot of these positions. We're having different ways to kind of bring ourselves to the same spot. So I think in jujitsu in general. It's a good strategy. We're having multiple ways to get the one position. We're going to feel very strong. So I have this overrack and would hide by the knee. And I do this so my foot was behind like that. I'm using my outside leg for momentum. But I didn't get that front of place. It'd be kind of awkward. I lose a good reaction. So foot comes around just like this. So I'm kind of stepping in the back of the hamstring. Grab now foot makes face. Throw. Now I continue the version. Catch the heel. That's I think you 50 with the heel. And we'll call it. We don't finish. All right. So knee or side pay guard. Very similar to the rest of the heel. Very similar feel. I'm just kind of converting that knee to the outside of the shin. It offers up all for us additional framing and protective of this against tactics. All right. So we went over using a last of the hit on version. So very similar. We can use a last of the set up on your side k-guard. It's not even a set of far side k-guard. Which we didn't really cover in this structure and look. If you guys are watching this. Probably if heard that position. Far side k-guard and a lap of job. I mean popular foot. So we can track the knee or side of the position. So same thing. The pose in the head or hip are free. I get my glasses. So I want to make sure. I'm using my toes. I just touched the face face. That's what the kick from what. Now I was opposed to just inverted. I can take my leg out. I can go to the same head of k-guard position. With the last of the hit. So I have my body. I can get my direction. Now I can just throw a leg all the way through. And we're the same back side position. So this time I'm using a scoop. I will let go. These slowers of the heel. But just like when we did before. I can go back and walk. So we come into the knee cut. I make some space. As opposed to going scoop. And just grab a side and use this as a space. Now it's going to go through. Go for the leg. Boom. All right. So I'm using that for the exact same thing. So it's important with this grip. I should really pull him on top of me. To kind of force us into the position. So I make the space. I get this like out. There'll be either here or overhook. And I'm really rotating my knee out with some toolings. And to me. So I can off balance. So we're going to do that with this. Now I will make space for all my back side position. And now here we are with the heel exposed. We can also. I'm not going to talk about this too much. Just because we discussed it all in the structural. But I posted it on the hip. I've made a space right here. I get this like out. Still like in both of the right leg. You search to step that back. A lot of times the fall leg will be going available. So I have a lot of stuff. A lot of times the fall leg will be going available. So I have a lot of stuff. But I'm going to scoop on the far leg. And now I'm going to start a regular kick bar. We're going to break the knee down for back side to the tip. So we'll show that again. So here. I'm going to take the leg out. You go to this. We start to step back. And I think I can't get that leg. I can just hook my toes on this claw. And pull my head to this leg. Now, I'll make space. I'll have to put your four. Now we're just the right away. I have good connection. I'll throw another leg behind. And now we're just in a regular kick bar. I can do back side. I have the 50. We're going to get 50. All right. So we can go both directions with that. You know, the near side or the far side. I feel this is probably one of the better controls. We covered in the structural. Getting that last. So I can really again. Because I have the foot. Pressing up the chest. I am making space while still being able to draw. I'm in the safe way to the near side. And the far side. All right, guys. So I hope you enjoyed the instructional. You guys can see how we went over. Like our base positioning. How properly you've heard. And then once we actually heard what we're supposed to do in that position. You guys see we kind of get to the same spot. Was that the time. And then we have all these different leg attack. Bad attack. Options from there. And then finally we talked about secondary options. Going to different cave yards. Going to the false reefers. Pretty popular these days. If you guys got my first instructional. Which is 50 50 and I'm 50 50. You're going to see there's a big connection to what we've covered in that. And so there was some crossover. But you guys will see like a lot of positions we did today. I'm going to kind of put us right in that. Those types of 50 50 positions that we've covered in the first instructional. So they really pair and all together. You guys will be able to use them. And then they'll get to work off each other and improve in both areas.